DOC-1751: Document the new Merge Tags plugin (#2513)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/mergetags.adoc

= Merge Tags plugin
:navtitle: Merge Tags
:description: Enables Merge Tags functionality in the {productname} editor
:keywords: merge, tags, tag, mergetags, mergetag, mergetags_list, mergetags_prefix, mergetags_suffix, mail merge, personalization token
:pluginname: Merge Tags
:plugincode: mergetags
:pluginminimumplan: tiertwo

include::partial$misc/admon-premium-plugin.adoc[]

include::partial$misc/admon-requires-6.2v.adoc[]

> The {pluginname} plugin allows the user to insert a merge tag (also known as a personalization token, or a mail merge field) from a drop-down list when a specified prefix is typed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {pluginname} plugin allows the user to insert a merge tag (also known as a personalization token, or a mail merge field), either as-you-type, from a drop-down list when a specified prefix is typed, or from a searchable toolbar menu button.
```
Should specify that the toolbar button is the other method of inserting a merge tag and allows searching for a specific tag.

Reviewer 2: I think this should also mention that mergetags are converted from content inserted into the editor or loaded. Maybe it needs to be a list of things some where. Might be a bit heavy for a introduction text. Also that would convert any thing that maches that pattern of `<prefix><text><suffix>`.

- [ ] We need to somehow cover the fact that mergetags will be identified from loaded/inserted content as well

Author: Added a slightly modified version of @MitchCTiny’s suggested change.

Also, added a usage note re TinyMCE auto-recognising strings that match an existing <prefix><merge-tag><suffix> when such a string is added to a document.

> Once the merge tag is inserted, the plugin leaves
> 
> * a non-editable variable wrapped in a prefix; and
> * a suffix making the tag easily identifiable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the merge tag is inserted, the plugin leaves a non-editable variable wrapped with a prefix and suffix, making it easily identifiable.
```

Reviewer 2: We use `a merge tag` in the description then `One the merge tag` here. So it `the` vs `a` not sure if it matters and what the language rules are here in English.

```suggestion
Suggested change 
Once a merge tag is inserted, the plugin leaves a non-editable variable wrapped with a prefix and suffix, making it easily identifiable.
```

== Interactive example

liveDemo::merge-tag[]

include::partial$misc/purchase-premium-plugins.adoc[]

== Basic setup

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'mergetags',
  toolbar: 'mergetags',
});
----

> The {pluginname} plugin provides an xref:autocompleter.adoc[autocompleter] for adding a merge tag without using the toolbar button or menu item.

Reviewer 2: I assume that we are mentioning the autocompleter here for more technical people. Since the initial descriptions talks about a drop-down. So I just want to verify is that on purpose making the initial text less complex then dig into the details in lower down in the text or should both mention the autocompleter and possible link to that?

Author: > So I just want to verify is that on purpose making the initial text less complex then dig into the details in lower down in the text or should both mention the autocompleter and possible link to that?

This is deliberate, although it’s not really about about catering to the non-technical up-front and the technical further down.

It’s more the standard inverted pyramid or progressive reveal structure.

1. this is what we’re talking about.
2. this is what it does.
3. this is how it works (the example).
4. and here are even more details.

Author: Also, I incorporated your suggested change from a local edit that I pushed to the branch. Your diff accidentally included the *Suggested change* meta-text, so it was ever-so slightly quicker to do the edit locally and push compared to committing here, pulling, removing the meta text, and pushing.

= Merge Tags plugin
:navtitle: Merge Tags
:description: Enables Merge Tags functionality in the {productname} editor
:keywords: merge, tags, tag, mergetags, mergetag, mergetags_list, mergetags_prefix, mergetags_suffix, mail merge, personalization token
:pluginname: Merge Tags
:plugincode: mergetags
:pluginminimumplan: tiertwo

include::partial$misc/admon-premium-plugin.adoc[]

include::partial$misc/admon-requires-6.2v.adoc[]

The {pluginname} plugin allows the user to insert a merge tag (also known as a personalization token, or a mail merge field).

> Merge tags can be inserted as-you-type; selected from a drop-down list when a specified prefix is typed; or selected and inserted from the searchable Merge tags toolbar menu button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merge tags can be inserted as-you-type, selected from a drop-down list when a specified prefix is typed; or selected and inserted from the searchable Merge tags toolbar menu button.
```
Just clarifying that there are only two methods of inserting a merge tag. First is as you type by selecting from a drop down when a specified prefix is typed, and second is via the toolbar menu button. This use of semi-colons implies three distinct methods.

Author: Change made locally and pushed, because I made even further edits to the ones suggested above.

Once a merge tag is inserted, the plugin leaves a non-editable variable wrapped with a prefix and suffix, making it easily identifiable.

== Interactive example

liveDemo::merge-tag[]

include::partial$misc/purchase-premium-plugins.adoc[]

== Basic setup

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'mergetags',

>   toolbar: 'mergetags',

Reviewer 3: Should add `mergetags_list` option since the menu item is not shown without it

Reviewer: This will have to include a basic list of mergetags then as well.

Author: Added `mergetags_list` option and ‘a basic list of mergetags’ to the basic setup example.

});
----

The {pluginname} plugin provides an xref:autocompleter.adoc[autocompleter] for adding a merge tag without using the toolbar button or menu item.

The autocompleter is triggered by typing a specified prefix, controlled by the xref:#mergetags_prefix[`+mergetags_prefix+`] option.

By default, this prefix is `{{`.

Entering characters after the prefix begins filtering the merge tags list.

> == Usage notes
> 
> . Merge tag are non-editable but can be inline-formatted.
> +
> For example, a merge tag can be set to any available typeface and type-size and can be set to *bold*, or _italic_.
> 
> . Merge tags can be changed.
> +
> Select the Merge tag, click the Merge tag toolbar button, and select a new tag from the menu that presents.
> 
> . Text that matches an existing Merge tag will be recognised as a Merge tag when it is pasted or otherwise inserted into a {productname} document.
> +
> For example, if `Sender.Firstname` is a Merge tag value, and the Merge tag prefix and suffix have their default values, adding the string, `{{Sender.FirstName}}`, to a {productname} document will result in the string automatically being recognised as a Merge tag.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Using Merge Tags

. Merge tag contents are non-editable but can have any inline-formats applied to them.
+
For example, a merge tag can be set to any available typeface, type-size, foreground or background color, or can be set to *bold*, or _italic_.

. Merge tags can be changed.
+
A selected merge tag can be changed to any other merge tag by using the merge tags toolbar menu button.

. Text that matches an existing merge tag will be recognised as a merge tag when it is pasted or otherwise inserted into a {productname} document.
+
Content containing the specified prefix and suffix, and matching a specified merge tag, will be inserted as a merge tag when pasted into the editor. For example, if `Sender.Firstname` is a Merge tag value, and the Merge tag prefix and suffix have their default values, adding the string, `{{Sender.FirstName}}`, to a {productname} document will result in the string automatically being recognised as a Merge tag.

. Merge tags can be nested within the `+mergetags_list+` option.
+
The `+mergetags_list+` option allows for the specification of a nested menu item within the merge tags toolbar menu button. This option allows any number of nested menus and items for merge tag categorisation.

```
Some edits and added details about nested menus. We should be consistent with capitalisation of "merge tags", I believe lowercase is suitable when talking about merge tags as they exist in the editor, however should be capitalised when referencing the plugin name (and using {pluginname}).

include::partial$misc/plugin-toolbar-button-id-boilerplate.adoc[]

include::partial$misc/plugin-menu-item-id-boilerplate.adoc[]

== Styling Merge tags

> It's possible to change the visual appearance of the Merge tags within the editor using a custom CSS file provided though the xref:add-css-options.adoc#content_css[content_css] option. Here is an example on how to style the various elements of the merge tag.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It's possible to change the visual appearance of the Merge tags within the editor using a custom CSS file provided through the xref:add-css-options.adoc#content_css[content_css] option. Here is an example on how to style the various elements of the merge tag.
```
